'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: sge_execd.8,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2008-12-04 17:11:17 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.10 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\" "
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH SGE_EXECD 8 "$Date: 2008-12-04 17:11:17 $" "SGE 8.0.0" "Grid Engine Administrative Commands"
.SH NAME
sge_execd \- Grid Engine job execution agent
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sge_execd
[
.B \-help
]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I sge_execd
controls the Grid Engine queues local to the machine on which
.I sge_execd
is running and executes/controls the jobs sent from
.M sge_qmaster 8
to be run on these queues.
.br
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.SS "\fB\-help\fP"
Prints a listing of all options.
.\"
.\"
.SH "LOAD SENSORS"
If a \fBload sensor\fP is configured for
.I sge_execd
via either the global host configuration or the 
execution-host-specific cluster configuration (see
.M sge_conf 5 ),
the executable path of the load sensor is invoked by
.I sge_execd
on a regular basis 
and delivers one or multiple load figures for the execution host (e.g.
users currently logged in) or the complete cluster (e.g. free
disk space on a network wide scratch file system). The load
sensor may be a script or a binary executable. In either case
its handling of the STDIN and STDOUT streams and its control
flow must comply to the following rules:
.PP
The load sensor must be written as an infinite loop waiting at
a certain point for input from STDIN. If the string "quit"
is read from STDIN, the load sensor should exit.  When an
end-of-line is read from STDIN, a load data retrieval cycle should
start. The load sensor then performs whatever
operation is necessary to compute the desired load figures.
At the end of the cycle the load sensor writes the result to
stdout. The format is as follows:
.IP "\(bu" 3n
A load value report starts with a line containing only either the word  "start"
or the word "begin".
.IP "\(bu" 3n
Individual load values are separated by newlines.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
Each load value report consists of three parts separated by
colons (":") and containing no blanks.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
The first part of a load value information is either the name of
the host for which load is reported or the special name
"global".
.IP "\(bu" 3n
The second part is the symbolic name of the load value as
defined in the host or global complex list (see
.M complex 5
for details). If a load value is
reported for which no entry in the host or global complex
list exists, the reported load value is not used.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
The third part is the measured load value.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
A load value report ends with a line with only the word "end".
.\" 
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBSGE_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the Grid Engine standard configuration
files.
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default Grid Engine cell. To address a Grid Engine
cell
.I sge_execd
uses (in the order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment 
variable SGE_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined.
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_QMASTER_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M sge_qmaster 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry for the
service "sge_qmaster" instead to define that port.
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_EXECD_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M sge_execd 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry for the
service "sge_execd" instead to define that port.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.I sge_execd
usually is started from root on each machine in the Grid Engine pool.
If started by a normal user, a spool directory must be used to which
the user has read/write access. In this case only jobs being submitted
by that same user are handled correctly by the system.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
\fBsgepasswd\fP  contains  a  list  of  user  names   and   their
corresponding encrypted passwords. If available, the
password  file  will  be   used   by  \fBsge_execd\fP. To change the contents 
of this file please use the \fBsgepasswd\fP command. It is not advised to  change  
that file manually.
.nf
.ta \w'<sge_root>/     'u
\fI<sge_root>/<cell>/common/configuration\fP
	Grid Engine global configuration
\fI<sge_root>/<cell>/common/local_conf/<host>\fP
	Grid Engine host specific configuration
\fI<sge_root>/<cell>/spool/<host>\fP
	Default execution host spool directory
\fI<sge_root>/<cell>/common/act_qmaster\fP
	Grid Engine master host file
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M sge_intro 1 ,
.M sge_conf 5 ,
.M complex 5 ,
.M sge_shepherd 8 ,
.M sge_qmaster 8 .
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M sge_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
