'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: sge_shadowd.8,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2007-11-08 23:04:23 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.11 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH SGE_SHADOWD 8 "$Date: 2007-11-08 23:04:23 $" "SGE 8.0.0" "Grid Engine Administrative Commands"
.SH NAME
sge_shadowd \- Grid Engine shadow master daemon
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sge_shadowd
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sge_shadowd
is a "light weight" process which can be run on so-called shadow
master hosts in a Grid Engine cluster to detect failure of the current
Grid Engine master daemon,
.M sge_qmaster 8 ,
and to start-up a new
.M sge_qmaster 8
on the host on which the
.I sge_shadowd
runs. If multiple shadow daemons are active in a cluster, they
run a protocol which ensures that only one of them will start-up
a new master daemon.
.PP
The  hosts suitable for being used as shadow master hosts must have
shared root read/write access to the directory $SGE_ROOT/$SGE_CELL/common
as well as to the master daemon spool directory
(by default $SGE_ROOT/$SGE_CELL/spool/qmaster).
The names of the shadow master hosts need to be contained in the file 
$SGE_ROOT/$xQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL/common/shadow_masters.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.I sge_shadowd
may only be started by root.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBSGE_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the Grid Engine standard configuration
files.
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default Grid Engine cell. To address a Grid Engine
cell
.I sge_shadowd
uses (in the order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment 
variable SGE_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined.
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_QMASTER_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M sge_qmaster 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry for the
service "sge_qmaster" instead to define that port.
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_DELAY_TIME\fP" 1.5i
This variable controls the interval in which
.I sge_shadowd
pauses if a takeover bid fails. This value is used only when there are multiple
.I sge_shadowd
instances and they are contending to be the master.
The default is 600 seconds.
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_CHECK_INTERVAL\fP" 1.5i
This variable controls the interval in which the
.I sge_shadowd
checks the heartbeat file (60 seconds by default).
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_GET_ACTIVE_INTERVAL\fP" 1.5i
This variable controls the interval when a
.I sge_shadowd
instance tries to take over when the heartbeat file has not changed.
The default is 240 seconds.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILES"
.nf
.ta \w'<sge_root>/     'u
\fI<sge_root>/<cell>/common\fP
	Default configuration directory
\fI<sge_root>/<cell>/common/shadow_masters\fP
	Shadow master hostname file.
\fI<sge_root>/<cell>/spool/qmaster\fP
	Default master daemon spool directory
\fI<sge_root>/<cell>/spool/qmaster/heartbeat\fP
	The heartbeat file.
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M sge_intro 1 ,
.M sge_conf 5 ,
.M sge_qmaster 8 ,
.I Grid Engine Installation and Administration Guide.
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M sge_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
