'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: sge_qmaster.8,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2008-05-05 09:03:35 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.12 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\" "
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH SGE_QMASTER 8 "$Date: 2008-05-05 09:03:35 $" "SGE 8.0.0" "Grid Engine Administrative Commands"
.SH NAME
sge_qmaster \- Grid Engine master control daemon
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sge_qmaster
[
.B \-help
]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sge_qmaster
controls the overall Grid Engine behavior in a cluster. 
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-help\fP"
Prints  a listing of all options.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBSGE_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the Grid Engine standard configuration
files.
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default Grid Engine cell. To address a Grid Engine
cell
.I sge_qmaster
uses (in order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment 
variable SGE_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition, the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined by the
defined value.
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, the qmaster will not daemonize.
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_QMASTER_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M sge_qmaster 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry for the
service "sge_qmaster" instead to define that port.
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_EXECD_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M sge_execd 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry for the
service "sge_execd" instead to define that port.
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_TEST_DELAY_SCHEDULING\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies a delay in (integral seconds) before a scheduling
run, for test purposes.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.I sge_qmaster
is usually started from root on the master or shadow master machines of the
cluster (refer to the
.I Grid Engine Installation and Administration Guide
for more information about the configuration of shadow master hosts).
If started by a normal user, a master spool directory must be used to which
the user has read/write access. In this case only jobs being submitted
by that same user are handled correctly by the system.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'<sge_root>/     'u
\fI<sge_root>/<cell>/common/configuration\fP
	Grid Engine global configuration
\fI<sge_root>/<cell>/common/local_conf/<host>\fP
	Grid Engine host specific configuration
\fI<sge_root>/<cell>/common/qmaster_args\fP
	\fIsge_qmaster\fP argument file
\fI<sge_root>/<cell>/spool\fP
	Default master spool directory
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M sge_intro 1 ,
.M sge_conf 5 ,
.M sge_execd 8 ,
.M sge_shadowd 8 ,
.I Grid Engine Installation and Administration Guide
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M sge_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
