'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: sge_shepherd.8,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2007-07-19 09:04:33 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.12 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\" "
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH SGE_SHEPHERD 8 "$Date: 2007-07-19 09:04:33 $" "SGE 8.0.0" "Grid Engine Administrative Commands"
.SH NAME
sge_shepherd \- Grid Engine single job-controlling agent
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sge_shepherd
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I sge_shepherd
provides the parent process functionality for a single Grid Engine job.
The parent functionality is necessary on UNIX systems to retrieve
resource usage information (see
.M getrusage 2 )
after a job has finished. In addition, the
.I sge_shepherd
forwards signals to the job, such as the signals for suspension,
enabling, termination and the Grid Engine checkpointing signal (see
.M sge_ckpt 1
and
.M queue_conf 5
for details).
.PP
The
.I sge_shepherd
receives information about the job to be started from the
.M sge_execd 8 .
During the execution of the job it actually starts up to 5 child
processes. First a prolog script is run if this feature is enabled by
the \fBprolog\fP parameter in the cluster configuration. (See
.M sge_conf 5 .)
Next a parallel environment startup procedure is run if the job is a parallel
job. (See
.M sge_pe 5
for more information.)
After that, the job itself is run, followed by a parallel environment shutdown
procedure for parallel jobs,
and finally an epilog script if requested by
the \fBepilog\fP parameter in the cluster configuration. The prolog
and epilog scripts, as well as the parallel environment startup and shutdown
procedures, are to be provided by the Grid Engine administrator
and are intended for site-specific actions to be taken before and
after execution of the actual user job.
.PP
After the job has finished and the epilog script is processed,
.I sge_shepherd
retrieves resource usage statistics about
the job, places them in a job specific subdirectory of the
.M sge_execd 8
spool directory for reporting through
.M sge_execd 8 ,
and finishes.

.I sge_shepherd
also places an exit status file in the spool directory. This exit status can
be viewed with qacct \-j JobId (see
.M qacct 1 );
it is not the exit status of 
.I sge_shepherd
itself but of one of the methods executed by 
.I sge_shepherd.
This exit status can have several meanings, depending on the method in which
an error occurred (if any).
The possible methods are: prolog, parallel start, job, parallel stop,
epilog, suspend, restart, terminate, clean, migrate, and checkpoint.

The following exit values are returned:
.IP "0" 0.7i
All methods: Operation was executed successfully.
.IP "99" 0.7i
Job script, prolog and epilog: When
.I
FORBID_RESCHEDULE 
is not set in the configuration
(see 
.M sge_conf 5 ),
the job gets re-queued.
Otherwise see "Other".
.IP "100" 0.7i
Job script, prolog and epilog: When
.I
FORBID_APPERROR
is not set in the configuration
(see
.M sge_conf 5 ),
the job gets re-queued.
Otherwise see "Other".
.IP "Other" 0.7i
Job script: This is the exit status of the job itself. No action is taken upon
this exit status because the meaning of this exit status is not known.
.br
Prolog, epilog and parallel start: The queue is set to error state and the job is
re-queued.
.br
Parallel stop: The queue is set to error state, but the job is not re-queued. It
is assumed that the job itself ran successfully and only the clean up script failed.
.br
Suspend, restart, terminate, clean, and migrate: Always successful.
.br
Checkpoint: Success, except for kernel checkpointing: checkpoint was not 
successful, did not happen (but migration will happen by Grid Engine).
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.I sge_shepherd
should not be invoked manually, but only by
.M sge_execd 8 .
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
\fBsgepasswd\fP contains a list of user names and their corresponding
encrypted passwords. If available, the password file will be used by
\fBsge_shepherd\fB. To change the contents of this file please use the
\fBsgepasswd\fB command. It is not advised to change that file
manually.
.nf
.ta \w'<execd_spool>/job_dir/<job_id>     'u
\fI<execd_spool>/job_dir/<job_id>\fR	job specific directory
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M sge_intro 1 ,
.M sge_conf 5 ,
.M remote_startup 5 ,
.M sge_execd 8 .
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M sge_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
