'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: host_aliases.5,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2011-05-18 01:57:41 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.1 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\" "
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH HOST_ALIASES 5 "$Date: 2011-05-18 01:57:41 $" "SGE 8.0.0" "Grid Engine File Formats"
.\"
.SH NAME
host_aliases \- Grid Engine host aliases file format
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
All Grid Engine components use a hostname resolving service provided by
the communication library to identify hosts via a unique hostname. The
communication library itself references standard UNIX directory services
such as DNS, NIS and /etc/hosts to resolve hostnames (through the Name
Service Switch on systems which support it).
In rare cases these standard services
cannot be setup cleanly and Grid Engine communication daemons running on
different hosts are unable to automatically determine a unique hostname
for one or all hosts which can be used on all hosts. In such situations
a Grid Engine host aliases file can be used to provide the communication
daemons with a private and consistent hostname resolution database.
.PP
The location for the host aliases file is 
\fI<sge_root>/<cell>/common/host_aliases\fP.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
For each host a single line must be provided with a blank-, comma-, or
semicolon-separated list of hostname aliases. The first alias
is defined to be the \fBunique\fP hostname which will be used
by all Grid Engine components using the hostname aliasing service
of the communication library.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M sge_intro 1 ,
.M nsswitch.conf 5 .
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M sge_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
